README.md, before:


sponsor on Paypal: <a href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=TZMEKJU9DGF92">donate</a>

# webos
An open source, modern, lightweight and customizable css/javascript library to manage the DOM as a MacOS-like window
manager. This library is based on <a href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox/tree/master">WinBox.js</a>.

<img src="https://github.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/raw/main/res/Oceans%2C%202025%2C%20WebOS%20Demo.webp" alt="Oceans, 2025, WebOS Screenshot #1">

WebOS is meant to work on desktop with a minimum resolution of 1280×720px. Do not post issue for display in smaller resolution.

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox/blob/master/LICENSE.md"><img
        src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/winbox.svg"></a>

#### Compatibility
<div style="width: 100%; text-align: center;">
    <table class="bc-table bc-table-web">
        <thead>
            <tr class="bc-platforms">
                <td></td>
                <th class="bc-platform bc-platform-desktop" colspan="5" title="desktop"><span
                        class="icon icon-desktop"></span><span class="visually-hidden">desktop</span></th>
            </tr>
            <tr class="bc-browsers">
                <td></td>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-chrome">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-chrome">Chrome</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-chrome"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-edge">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-edge">Edge</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-edge"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-firefox">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-firefox">Firefox</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-simple-firefox"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-opera">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-opera">Opera</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-opera"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-safari">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-safari">Safari</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-safari"></div>
                </th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr>
                <th class="bc-feature bc-feature-depth-0" scope="row">
                    <div class="bc-table-row-header"><code>WebOS</code></div>
                </th>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-chrome bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Chrome >= 106.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-edge bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Edge >= 116.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-firefox bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Firefox >= 134.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-opera bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Opera >= 115.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-safari bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Safari >= 17.4</span></div>
                </td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
</div>




## Demo

The demo is available <a href="https://oceansolutions.fr/webos/demo/index.html" target="_blank">here</a>. The code of the demo is available in the ```demo``` directory of the WebOS repository. No support is provided for the demo.

Thanks to <a href="https://oceansolutions.fr" target="_blank">oceansolutions.fr</a> for the hosting of the demo.

It demonstrates the following features:
 - dock
 - menubar
 - pad
 - singe-window apps
 - external website embeding (provided the target website has a compatible <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/frame-ancestors" target="_blank">frame-ancestors</a> policy.)
 - new tab URL opening

## Getting Started

### Get the latest stable build

<table style="width: 100%;">
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <b><u>Non-Bundle:</u></b> (js and css are separated, js includes icons as base64)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>winbox.min.js</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/dist/latest/webos.min.js" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>winbox.min.css</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/dist/latest/webos.min.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
           <b><u>Sources:</u></b>  (js and css are separated, js includes icons as base64)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ES6 Modules</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/src/js/webos.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CSS File (source)</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/src/css/webos.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>


### Embedding in your HTML

> The use of WebOS requires the <a href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox">winbox.js</a> library (for compatibility reasons, the use of ```lib/winbox.bundle.js``` in highly recommanded), the WebOS CSS and JS latest distribution release.

A best practice is to load the winbox library as async and import the WebOS library:
```html
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="./css/webos.min.css">
    <link rel="preload" href="./js/winbox.bundle.js" as="script">
</head>
<body>
    <!--    
    HTML CONTENT
    -->

    <!-- BOTTOM OF BODY -->
    <script src="./js/winbox.bundle.js" async></script>
    
    <!-- EMEBED OR EXTERNAL CUSTOM SCRIPTS -->
    <script type="module" defer>
        import {WebOS} from "./js/webos.min.js"

        // YOUR CODE HERE

    </script>
</body>
</html>
```

### Initializing and rendering WebOS

> The use of WebOS requires the initialization of a ```WebOS``` instance. The instance is unique for the current page and is shared with all the windows, through the app.webos property. The WebOS instance is not shared between navigator tabs. You can find the reference of the options <a href="#options">here</a>

```js

        // initialize an option object
        const webos_options = {
            menu: true,
            dock: true,
            pad: false,
            background: "./img/space.jpg"
        }

        // create a new WebOS instance
        const webos = new WebOS(webos_options)

        // add an app to the webos
        webos.add(/* see Adding apps section */)

        // render the webos in the DOM
        webos.render()
```


### Adding apps

> To add apps to WebOS, you must first initialize a ```WebOS``` instance. Once initialized, you can add apps to the OS using the ```add``` method. Only app added before `webos.render()` will be rendered. Refer to the <a href="#app_properties">list of app properties</a>.

```js
        // initialize an object
        const app = {
            id: "calculator",
            url: "./app/calculator.html",
            single: true
        } 
        
        // add an app to the webos
        webos.add(app)

        // ...
```


## References

### repository structure
the WebOS repository has the following structure:
```

├── cli/        // node.js CLI utils (versioning, packaging)
├── dist/       // distribution version
├── demo/       // example HTML page using WebOS
├── lib/        // third party dependencies
└── src/        // PHP 8.3 Rest APIs entry point source code
    ├── css/    // WebOS css styles
    └── js/     // WebOS javascript sources
```


### WebOS Options

<a name="options"></span>

The options parameters of ```new WebOS(options)``` is a Javascript object, with the following properties:

|Property|Type|Default Value|Description|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--|
|`menu`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the window menu. The window menu is a bar located at the top of the window and displaying global functions and information (by default date and time).|
|`dock`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the window dock. The window dock is a bar located at the bottom of the window and displaying apps.|
|`pad`|`boolean`|`false`|Adding or not the window pad to the list of apps. The window pad is a full screen overlay div with a grid containing the apps icons.|
|`background`|`string`|`null`|Display or not the window pad. The window pad is a bar located at the bottom of the window and displaying running apps (by default the pad app).|


### App Properties

<a name="app_properties"></span>

The app parameters of ```webos.add(app)``` is a Javascript object, with the following properties:

|Property|Type|Default Value|Description|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--|
|`color_bottom`|`string`|`#B0B0B0`|The app icon bottom color.|
|`color_top`|`string`|`#F0F0F0`|The app icon top color.|
|`icon_src`|`string`|rocket emoji UNI Code v16|The app icon (an url or a base64 string).|
|`id`*|`string`|`null`|The app id.|
|`onclick`|`function`|`null`| in case no url is specified, the onclick(event, app) function is used.|
|`single`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the app in a separate window.|
|`url`|`string`|`null`|The app url.|
|`webos`|`WebOS`|`{}`|The app url.|

Commit message:

addition of webos methods sections

README.md, after:


sponsor on Paypal: <a href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=TZMEKJU9DGF92">donate</a>

# webos
An open source, modern, lightweight and customizable css/javascript library to manage the DOM as a MacOS-like window
manager. This library is based on <a href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox/tree/master">WinBox.js</a>.

<img src="https://github.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/raw/main/res/Oceans%2C%202025%2C%20WebOS%20Demo.webp" alt="Oceans, 2025, WebOS Screenshot #1">

WebOS is meant to work on desktop with a minimum resolution of 1280×720px. Do not post issue for display in smaller resolution.

<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox/blob/master/LICENSE.md"><img
        src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/winbox.svg"></a>

#### Compatibility
<div style="width: 100%; text-align: center;">
    <table class="bc-table bc-table-web">
        <thead>
            <tr class="bc-platforms">
                <td></td>
                <th class="bc-platform bc-platform-desktop" colspan="5" title="desktop"><span
                        class="icon icon-desktop"></span><span class="visually-hidden">desktop</span></th>
            </tr>
            <tr class="bc-browsers">
                <td></td>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-chrome">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-chrome">Chrome</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-chrome"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-edge">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-edge">Edge</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-edge"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-firefox">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-firefox">Firefox</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-simple-firefox"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-opera">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-opera">Opera</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-opera"></div>
                </th>
                <th class="bc-browser bc-browser-safari">
                    <div class="bc-head-txt-label bc-head-icon-safari">Safari</div>
                    <div class="bc-head-icon-symbol icon icon-safari"></div>
                </th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr>
                <th class="bc-feature bc-feature-depth-0" scope="row">
                    <div class="bc-table-row-header"><code>WebOS</code></div>
                </th>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-chrome bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Chrome >= 106.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-edge bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Edge >= 116.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-firefox bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Firefox >= 134.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-opera bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Opera >= 115.0</span></div>
                </td>
                <td class="bc-support bc-browser-safari bc-supports-yes bc-has-history" aria-expanded="false">
                    <div class="bcd-cell-text-wrapper"><div class="bcd-cell-text-copy"><span class="bc-browser-name">Safari >= 17.4</span></div>
                </td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
</div>




## Demo

The demo is available <a href="https://oceansolutions.fr/webos/demo/index.html" target="_blank">here</a>. The code of the demo is available in the ```demo``` directory of the WebOS repository. No support is provided for the demo.

Thanks to <a href="https://oceansolutions.fr" target="_blank">oceansolutions.fr</a> for the hosting of the demo.

It demonstrates the following features:
 - dock
 - menubar
 - pad
 - singe-window apps
 - external website embeding (provided the target website has a compatible <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/frame-ancestors" target="_blank">frame-ancestors</a> policy.)
 - new tab URL opening

## Getting Started

### Get the latest stable build

<table style="width: 100%;">
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
            <b><u>Non-Bundle:</u></b> (js and css are separated, js includes icons as base64)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>winbox.min.js</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/dist/latest/webos.min.js" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>winbox.min.css</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/dist/latest/webos.min.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan="2">
           <b><u>Sources:</u></b>  (js and css are separated, js includes icons as base64)
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ES6 Modules</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/src/js/webos.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CSS File (source)</td>
        <td><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oceansolutionsfr/webos/refs/heads/main/src/css/webos.css" target="_blank">Download</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>


### Embedding in your HTML

> The use of WebOS requires the <a href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox">winbox.js</a> library (for compatibility reasons, the use of ```lib/winbox.bundle.js``` in highly recommanded), the WebOS CSS and JS latest distribution release.

A best practice is to load the winbox library as async and import the WebOS library:
```html
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="./css/webos.min.css">
    <link rel="preload" href="./js/winbox.bundle.js" as="script">
</head>
<body>
    <!--    
    HTML CONTENT
    -->

    <!-- BOTTOM OF BODY -->
    <script src="./js/winbox.bundle.js" async></script>
    
    <!-- EMEBED OR EXTERNAL CUSTOM SCRIPTS -->
    <script type="module" defer>
        import {WebOS} from "./js/webos.min.js"

        // YOUR CODE HERE

    </script>
</body>
</html>
```

### Initializing and rendering WebOS

> The use of WebOS requires the initialization of a ```WebOS``` instance. The instance is unique for the current page and is shared with all the windows, through the app.webos property. The WebOS instance is not shared between navigator tabs. You can find the reference of the options <a href="#options">here</a>

```js

        // initialize an option object
        const webos_options = {
            menu: true,
            dock: true,
            pad: false,
            background: "./img/space.jpg"
        }

        // create a new WebOS instance
        const webos = new WebOS(webos_options)

        // add an app to the webos
        webos.add(/* see Adding apps section */)

        // render the webos in the DOM
        webos.render()
```


### Adding apps

> To add apps to WebOS, you must first initialize a ```WebOS``` instance. Once initialized, you can add apps to the OS using the ```add``` method. Only app added before `webos.render()` will be rendered. Refer to the <a href="#app_properties">list of app properties</a>.

```js
        // initialize an object
        const app = {
            id: "calculator",
            url: "./app/calculator.html",
            single: true
        } 
        
        // add an app to the webos
        webos.add(app)

        // ...
```


## References

### repository structure
the WebOS repository has the following structure:
```

├── cli/        // node.js CLI utils (versioning, packaging)
├── dist/       // distribution version
├── demo/       // example HTML page using WebOS
├── lib/        // third party dependencies
├── res/        // additional resources (screenshots,..)
└── src/        // PHP 8.3 Rest APIs entry point source code
    ├── css/    // WebOS css styles
    └── js/     // WebOS javascript sources
```


### WebOS Options

<a name="options"></span>

The options parameters of ```new WebOS(options)``` is a Javascript object, with the following properties:

|Property|Type|Default Value|Description|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--|
|`menu`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the window menu. The window menu is a bar located at the top of the window and displaying global functions and information (by default date and time).|
|`dock`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the window dock. The window dock is a bar located at the bottom of the window and displaying apps.|
|`pad`|`boolean`|`false`|Adding or not the window pad to the list of apps. The window pad is a full screen overlay div with a grid containing the apps icons.|
|`background`|`string`|`null`|Display or not the window pad. The window pad is a bar located at the bottom of the window and displaying running apps (by default the pad app).|

### WebOS Methods

`constructor(options = {})`
Creates a new WebOS instance with the specified <a href="#options">options</a>.


`add(app_properties)`
Adds an app to the OS, with the specified <a href="#app_properties">properties</a>.

`render()`
Render the WebOS instance.

### App Properties

<a name="app_properties"></span>

The app parameters of ```webos.add(app)``` is a Javascript object, with the following properties:

|Property|Type|Default Value|Description|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--|
|`color_bottom`|`string`|`#B0B0B0`|The app icon bottom color.|
|`color_top`|`string`|`#F0F0F0`|The app icon top color.|
|`icon_src`|`string`|rocket emoji UNI Code v16|The app icon (an url or a base64 string).|
|`id`*|`string`|`null`|The app id.|
|`onclick`|`function`|`null`| in case no url is specified, the onclick(event, app) function is used.|
|`single`|`boolean`|`false`|Display or not the app in a separate window.|
|`url`|`string`|`null`|The app url.|
|`webos`|`WebOS`|`null`|The calling WebOS instance.|
|`winbox`|`object`|`{}`|The WinBox-like <a href="https://github.com/nextapps-de/winbox/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#options">options</a> when instancing the winbox used to display the app.|
